---
layout: page
subheadline: Identity Management & Federation
title:  "RCCPII and SAFIRE to Host Identity Management & Federation Workshop"
teaser: "In recent years, the ability to access shared resources, data, and services has become a hot topic for
organisations involved in tertiary education and research. Proper identity management practices and strategies lie at the
heart of federation. RCCPII and SAFIRE are hosting a workshop in March to further develop competency at universities and
other institutions and to help establish a community of practice around these topics."
meta_teaser: ""
breadcrumb: true
categories:
    - federation
header:
    image_fullwidth: "whitebackground.png"
tags:
    - federation
    - shared services
    - identity management
author: Anelda van der Walt
---
## About IMF-2019

Many institutions are already doing some form of identity management, but often the staff involved have no formal
understanding of the underlying concepts and theory. This workshop is aimed at institutional identity management staff or
directory administrators -- the people responsible for provisioning user accounts.

We will start by providing a solid
understanding of digital identity and the identity management lifecycle in a vendor-neutral way. This serves as an introduction
for those who may be unfamiliar with identity management whilst simultaneously solidifying the theoretical concepts for staff already working
in this space. Building on this knowledge, we go on to introduce the concepts of federated identity generically, explore why
federation is important to research and education, and look at eduroam and SAFIRE as specific examples that are relevant in
South Africa.

## Who should attend?

IMF 2019 is targeted at institutional identity management staff or directory administrators - the people responsible for provisioning user accounts at public universities in South Africa.

In order to benefit fully, attendees should bring their own laptop, and ideally should have some familiarity with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) installations.

## More information

The [workshop website](https://tenet-rccpii.github.io/identity-2019/) provides more information about the schedule, contents, and venue.

Organisers can be contacted at [imf-2019@googlegroups.com](imf-2019@googlegroups.com).


## Other Post Formats
{: .t60 }
{% include list-posts tag='post format' %}
